src/content/docs/index.md, before:

---
title: Shelton's Bash Guide
description: A concise, practical Bash guide with Diátaxis-aligned content, themed with Nord colors (light and dark).
hero:
  tagline: A developer-focused Bash guide with beautiful Nord theming and powerful search.
  image:
    file: ../../assets/houston.webp
  actions:
    - text: Explore Concepts
      link: /concepts/data-types/
      icon: right-arrow
    - text: Browse Reference
      link: /reference/
      icon: document
      variant: minimal
---

Welcome to Shelton's Bash Guide! This guide is organized using the **Diátaxis** framework:

## 📚 Structure

- **Concepts**: Core Bash topics like variables, functions, conditionals, loops, and file operations
- **Reference**: Authoritative, terse descriptions of builtins, syntax, and keywords  
- **Explanations**: Essays that connect concepts and clarify design decisions
- **Tutorials** (future): Step-by-step learning paths
- **How-to guides** (future): Task-oriented recipes

## 🎨 Theme

This guide features a beautiful **Nord** color scheme with both light and dark modes. Use the theme toggle (☀️/🌙) in the navigation to switch between:

- **Nord Light**: Clean, bright theme with snow storm colors
- **Nord Dark**: Cozy, dark theme with polar night colors

## 🔍 Search

Powered by Starlight's built-in search - just press **/** or **Ctrl+K** to search across all content.

## 🚀 Getting Started

Start with [Data Types](/concepts/data-types/) to understand Bash's type system fundamentals, or jump to the [Reference](/reference/) for quick lookups of specific commands and syntax.

Commit message:

fix(homepage): hide sidebar and improve text visibility
- Use splash template to hide sidebar on homepage
- Move content to hero-content div for proper display in splash template
- Add comprehensive CSS styling for hero content visibility
- Ensure proper text contrast with Nord theme colors
- Add responsive design for mobile devices
- Style headings, links, and typography for better readability

src/content/docs/index.md, after:

---
title: Shelton's Bash Guide
description: A concise, practical Bash guide with Diátaxis-aligned content, themed with Nord colors (light and dark).
template: splash
hero:
  tagline: A developer-focused Bash guide with beautiful Nord theming and powerful search.
  image:
    file: ../../assets/houston.webp
  actions:
    - text: Explore Concepts
      link: /concepts/data-types/
      icon: right-arrow
    - text: Browse Reference
      link: /reference/
      icon: document
      variant: minimal
---

<div class="hero-content">

## Welcome!

This guide is organized using the **Diátaxis** framework:

### 📚 Structure
- **Concepts**: Core Bash topics starting with data types, variables, functions, conditionals, loops, and file operations
- **Reference**: Authoritative, terse descriptions of builtins, syntax, and keywords  
- **Explanations**: Essays that connect concepts and clarify design decisions
- **Tutorials** (future): Step-by-step learning paths
- **How-to guides** (future): Task-oriented recipes

### 🎨 Theme
This guide features a beautiful **Nord** color scheme with both light and dark modes. Use the theme toggle (☀️/🌙) in the navigation to switch between:
- **Nord Light**: Clean, bright theme with snow storm colors
- **Nord Dark**: Cozy, dark theme with polar night colors

### 🔍 Search
Powered by Starlight's built-in search - just press **/** or **Ctrl+K** to search across all content.

### 🚀 Getting Started
Start with [Data Types](/concepts/data-types/) to understand Bash's type system fundamentals, or jump to the [Reference](/reference/) for quick lookups of specific commands and syntax.

</div>

Welcome to Shelton's Bash Guide! This guide is organized using the **Diátaxis** framework:

## 📚 Structure

- **Concepts**: Core Bash topics like variables, functions, conditionals, loops, and file operations
- **Reference**: Authoritative, terse descriptions of builtins, syntax, and keywords  
- **Explanations**: Essays that connect concepts and clarify design decisions
- **Tutorials** (future): Step-by-step learning paths
- **How-to guides** (future): Task-oriented recipes

## 🎨 Theme

This guide features a beautiful **Nord** color scheme with both light and dark modes. Use the theme toggle (☀️/🌙) in the navigation to switch between:

- **Nord Light**: Clean, bright theme with snow storm colors
- **Nord Dark**: Cozy, dark theme with polar night colors

## 🔍 Search

Powered by Starlight's built-in search - just press **/** or **Ctrl+K** to search across all content.

## 🚀 Getting Started

Start with [Data Types](/concepts/data-types/) to understand Bash's type system fundamentals, or jump to the [Reference](/reference/) for quick lookups of specific commands and syntax.
